.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2020 Olav Fosse <fosseolav@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd September 25, 2020
.Dt 0X0 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm 0x0
.Nd interface with
.Lk https://0x0.st
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm 0x0 Cm file Oo Fl nv Oc Ar filename
.Nm 0x0 Cm shorten Oo Fl nv Oc Ar URL
.Nm 0x0 Cm url Oo Fl nv Oc Ar URL
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
utility is an interface to the
.Lk https://0x0.st
file hosting and URL shortening service.
.Pp
The command modifiers are as follows.
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Cm file Ar filename
Upload the local file
.Ar filename Ns \&.
If
.Ar filename
is a directory, a tarball of the directory is uploaded.
If
.Ar filename
is -, stdin is uploaded.
.It Cm shorten Ar URL
Shorten
.Ar URL ,
i.e return a short URL that redirects to
.Ar URL
when opened.
Supported protocols are http and https.
.It Cm url Ar URL
Upload the remote file at
.Ar URL .
Supported protocols are http and https.
.El
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl n
Do not execute the
.Xr curl 1
or
.Xr tar 1
commands.
.It Fl v
Output the
.Xr curl 1
and
.Xr tar 1
commands that are executed, or would be if
.Fl n
was not passed.
.El
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std 0x0
.Sh EXAMPLES
Upload the source code of
.Nm :
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ 0x0 file "$(which 0x0)"
.Lk https://0x0.st/iU8B.bin
.Ed
.Pp
Output the
.Xr curl 1
command
.Nm
uses in the previous example without executing it:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ 0x0 file -nv "$(which 0x0)"
curl -Ss -w status_code=%{http_code} https://0x0.st "-Ffile=@"/usr/local/bin/0x0""
.Ed
.Pp
Upload a diff:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ diff old new | 0x0 file -
.Lk https://0x0.st/iU8L.txt
.Ed
.Pp
Shorten a URL:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ 0x0 shorten https://why-openbsd.rocks
.Lk https://0x0.st/PmsW
.Ed
.Pp
Upload a remote file:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ 0x0 url http://www.openbsd.org/art/puffy/ppuf800X725.gif
.Lk https://0x0.st/iU8n.gif
.Ed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr curl 1 ,
.Xr tar 1
.Pp
.Lk https://0x0.st ,
.Lk https://github.com/olav35/0x0
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Olav Fosse Aq Mt fosseolav@gmail.com
